
Initial opinion, two types to test: 1) random (-5;+5); 2) clusters

Clusters mean starting already with a few crowded regions and almost empty space
between. Basically, divide the range in c clusters (if range was 1, distance
1/c, for example, as it will be close to 10, distance between clusters 10/c),
then distribute agents by cluster and randomly around cluster center, with a
standard deviation much smaller than the range, of course. The expected average
should be zero, that is there should be as many clusters above 0 and bellow it.

Also, there is no need to impose a range, like 0-1. If an initial value is drawn
outside a range, no need to correct it. The system might end up in a larger or
smaller range. Better to start at a larger one, for example, -5;+5 so that we
can only observe -1;+1 at the end and avoid most boundary issues. That means, of
course, sigmas must start larger to allow interaction. Initial sigmas might be
in the 2-20 range, we certainly want to explore the 5-10 interval.


Interactions as per the algorithm you have with one extra step and a difference.
Two possibilities for the difference:

1) Each time step, each and every agent draws one neighbor and is influenced by
that neighbor. Multiple agents might end up randomly observing same agent, some
will not be drawn (easier to implement).

2) Divide the whole set of agents in pairs and let them influence each other
(must implement a method to divide the whole set so that every agent belongs to
one and one only pair).


Once every agent updated its opinion once and its sigma to sigma*, use the ratio
r=sigma*/sigma to renormalize distances. That is trivially easy. Just divide all
opinions by r . That is, if sigma decreases to half initial sigma, distances
would double.


Repeat.
